Welcome to the Data Profession Academy.
This video is a part of our data analyst
playlist, where we cover everything you
need to know to become a data analyst.
We will post content every week.
So stay tuned.
Today is day one of our content.
Today, we will talk about the
exciting world of data in our
introduction to data world section.
We will learn how to
think like a data analyst.
I will also show you some examples
of how data is used in the real
world to drive business decisions.
Let's jump into today's session.
Today we will learn about.
What data is, what data career looks
like, what sort of different data
careers are available there, and
what does a data professional do, or
how does a data professional think?
And that's probably the most important
part is learning if you are given any
problem, how do you start thinking from
the data professionals perspective?
And that's the key thing we will
learn today is try to understand how
a data professional think Okay,  so
let's jump into the content now.
First thing, obviously we
need to know is what data is.
The definition of data
is evolving every day.
So previously we only used to think that
data is some numbers or some spreadsheet
where you have rows and columns and you
have data in those rows and columns.
That's, used to be like a
common thinking about data.
But with all this evolution, with all
these advances in technologies, now
everything has become data, for example,
you guys are attending the meeting today.
That's also a data.
You guys, some guys are not attending
the meeting, that's also data.
And you are looking at this screen,
so your screen time is also data.
You are moving your mouse here
and there, so that pattern of
your mouse movement is also data.
You probably are wearing some watch,
so your heartbeat is being tracked,
so your heartbeat is also a data.
Everything you can possibly think
of  is now being treated as data.
you post something on your social
media that's another data point.
Someone likes on that social
media, that's another data point.
Someone sees your post and does not like
it, that's again another data point.
So data is just almost everywhere.
And that's what makes it really
interesting is trying to find that
data that maybe no one else ever
thought about using or no one else
actually thought that it existed and
turning that into meaningful insight.
That's what data professionals
do,  so if you were just normal
data that everyone saw, that normal
spreadsheets and whatever, Then
turning those into meaningful
insights that's like a normal thing.
And even the AIs these days
are good enough to  turn
those things into insights.
But what a data professional, what
a true data professional can do
is, identify those data points
that no one ever considered before.
that's where the majority
of the value comes from.
It's not, it is from those existing
data as well, but it's the ability
to find those data from those
unusual places and make it useful.
That's one of the biggest strength
or that's one of the biggest
quality of a data professional
is the ability to uncover or find
those interesting data points.
That's why the world through a data
lens is that for data professional,
the world is full of data points.
And that's why you will explore every
nooks and corners of it to find those
exciting and interesting data points
and turn them into meaningful insight.
Data professional is not
like they will just wait for
someone to hand them the data.
That doesn't make you a data professional.
A data professional should be
able to identify where that
data is how to get it and how to
turn it into meaningful insight.
And that's what we're here to learn
is how to identify those interesting
data points that probably are
sitting just in front of our eyes,
but we are failing to identify them.
And the, yeah, the role often involves
merging different data points.
So yeah, you will probably use some
of the data that you already knew
and existed, but you will create.
some data points from, some different
sources that no one else thought of or you
try to combine two different data sources
that no one Else ever thought of combining
and there was a quite interesting example.
I found on linkedin one
day and it was from India.
So someone was planning to apply
for a job in a company, but finding
the salary label of people in
that company is a bit hard, right?
Because people don't advertise
about the company doesn't
advertise about the salary label.
People also don't LinkedIn
or like any other portal.
But what she found that was
people actually list their.
occupation and their salary
in matrimonial sites.
So what she did was she looked for that
company in the matrimonial sites and
she found the salary data from there.
And that was quite interesting because
yeah, people probably don't go to
matrimonial sites to try to find
the salary for a company, right?
Or what are the salary
levels for a company?
But she tried and she
actually got it, right?
And that's the interesting thing.
And that's what being a
true data professional.
Is about is trying to find those unique
places or different places where the
data might be there or interesting
data is there and try to combine
that and get a meaningful insight.
That's what looking at the world
through the data lens means you are
always trying to find those interesting
data points that you can convert into
meaningful knowledge and insights.
And  that's where the curiosity of
data professional comes in as well.
So if the idea of discovering these kind
of new data sources and uncovering those
hidden insights excites you, then, that's
exactly what a data professional needs.
And if you have that curiosity, you will
make a really good data professional.
Okay, it's not about your technical skill.
Yeah, technical skills are there.
You need to learn those tools and stuff.
Yeah.
But it's the mindset.
If you have got the right mindset,
you can learn those tools.
And yeah, because those tools when
you are applying for jobs and when
you, when we look at average data
analyst versus a good data analyst.
They probably know the same tools,
but the good data analyst is a good
data analyst because they have got
this kind of curiosity and they
have got this kind of perspective of
looking everything through data lens.
Does that make sense?
Let's talk about data versus
information versus knowledge
and the evolution of value.
Okay, so this is really important to know
the difference between what data is, what
information is, and what knowledge is.
Okay, so what is data?
Data is at the most basic level is the
raw collection of facts and figures.
Okay.
So everything that we talked about
previously, like those social
media posts, likes, heartbeat, your
purchase history whatever you can
think of, those are all data, right?
So they are just raw.
They are just the collection of
facts and in itself, the data has no
value, ? So your purchase history in
itself, it doesn't benefit anyone,
but when someone analyzes that
purchase history, maybe that's you.
So you yourself are analyzing your
purchase history and you found out that
there were some costs that you can cut.
Now that becomes information
and that will be of value.
The purchase history in itself, it didn't
have any value, but when you analyzed
it and converted it into information
and then use that information to drive
some decisions, which probably will be
like, yeah, I probably don't need to buy
this too much, or I can buy this from
some other place where it's cheaper.
And then you are now generating value
from the data, so there is data, which
is just the raw collection of facts,
which doesn't have any value on itself.
But when you analyze it and  use
it to drive a decision, That's
when it will generate the value.
And this is what, this is the journey
that data analyst has to travel.
So a data analyst has to be able to take
a data, convert it into information, and
that information should drive a decision.
Urging people or urging other
people to make that decision is
also data analyst's job,  so your
job is not just to produce insight.
Yeah, you'll probably produce insight,
you'll probably produce charts and
KPIs and numbers, whatever it is.
But if you cannot convince the
other person who needs to make
that then it's of no use, fine.
For example, in the same case, like
when you were doing your own analysis
of your purchase history, if you can't
convince yourself that, okay, you need
to do cost coding on this item, Did
the analysis, is the analysis useful?
Did it generate any value?
No, because the decision was
not taken not even decision.
The action was not taken because
unless you take an action nothing
really happens because the analysis
in itself doesn't generate value
is the action that generates value.
That's why the first part
is from data to information.
That's analysis from
information to action.
That's the communication skills.
And there's the data storytelling and
communication that we definitely focus on
in the later part of our course yes, now
you have got that analysis, but how you
can convert this analysis into action.
Who do you need to convince
and how would you convince it
convincing there also needs those
evidence and facts to support it.
You can't go to someone and say, hey,
you need to do a cost cutting on this
one, or you need to stop buying this.
You need to have  evidence backing for
that claim that you are making,  and
that's where the analysis comes in.
I hope that's making sense.
So that's where the data versus
information versus knowledge comes in.
So if you to plot a value
axis, let me see if I can draw
it  if This was the value axis.
So let's call it this is value.
And if we go down this
way, the value increases.
So if that's the case,
then data will be on here.
So this is where the data will be because
data in itself doesn't have any value.
Because the raw data
doesn't give you anything.
But information will be somewhere
around here because now you
have analyzed the data and you
have produced some information.
You have produced some trends,
some patterns and things like that.
But knowledge is somewhere
around here because knowledge is
something that people can act on.
Okay, so based on this information, now
I can maybe deduce some accents saying,
okay, this is the pattern I'm following.
This is something that I'm
spending too much money on.
Let's try to reduce that scots.
That's what knowledge is and that's
the thing that gives you value It's not
information alone  But the knowledge
is what gives you value and I think we
have got an example here as well okay.
Yeah, there you go.
So for instance consider a retail
company which are tracking every
customer transaction just Think
of like calls or willies, right?
So every time you scan an item
that is being tracked, right?
So they know what you're buying, what
you're not buying, all those things.
So these records by themselves
don't tell the company much, right?
So you're buying 10 items or you
buy this and that item, that data in
itself doesn't help that company much.
But let's get into the information now.
So in the same example, let's say that
the company found that the average basket
size for each customer is decreasing.
So previously people were buying
10 items together, now they are
just buying 8 items together.
So they found that trend.
And that now is somewhat useful, right?
But in order to make it fully useful
and generate the value out of it, now
they have to add something on top of it.
And that's the domain experience.
So what they did is, in this scenario, the
sales manager will be the domain expert.
they interpret the information
and they identify that The store's
BYO bag policy happened around the
same time that the train went down.
So for instance, maybe they launched
their BYO bag policy in September,
and the average basket size started
to decrease since September.
So now they know the root
cause that, okay, yes, because
we're not giving people bags.
They can't really hold
much items on their hand.
So obviously the basket size will
go down So what they did on and
now is the accent time, right?
Because if they just know that
thing and don't take an accent
Again, it doesn't give any value.
So what's the action could
be is I'll do this knowledge.
The store introduces a reusable
bag for 1 or whatever it is.
And that will probably help them
again, increase that basket size.
So this is a typical example on
how data becomes information.
And then information is now
combined with those domain
expertise to convert into knowledge.
And that knowledge is what
we take actions upon, right?
So the action was taken the store
introduces the Reusable bags for
one dollar and then that gives them
the outcome the value So this is the
timeline or the progression of data.
And that's what as a data
professional, you need to be aware of.
It's your job to take, to get it
from data all the way to knowledge.
most of the time it won't be the
data analyst who takes the action.
It will be someone else like a
store manager business owner or
CEO or whoever that is who can take
that action or make the decision.
It's also the data analyst's job to
persuade them to make that decision.
how do we persuade them?
by backing our claims with
evidence showing that Okay.
This is exactly the time when
you introduce the BYO bag policy,
the trend started to go down.
So we need to do something on it.
And then the action will be taken and then
the business will get value out of it.
hope that makes sense
now with this example?
This is another example that I
that I have taken out from the
recent immigration report as well.
So you if you.
I believe most of you are international
students, so if you are international
students you probably are familiar
with the recent immigration changes
that they are trying to reduce the
number of years on your temporary
graduate visa and all the other changes,
but the data behind all of that
migration policy changes was this.
And I got this screenshot from
their immigration report itself.
So this was the data that
they acted upon, right?
They had the data, which was like
how many students, how many graduate
students they have, how many of them
are working in related jobs, how many of
them are staying here a long time, how
many of them are switching courses and
all those things they have data about.
And they converted that
data into this knowledge.
And then this knowledge was
acted upon and they proposed
changes in the Migration Act.
And now we have seen that it's already
been implemented from July 1 and we
have already seen that in action.
So that's a true example of data
in action, is they had the data,
they brought it into information,
they converted that into knowledge.
they brought in a lot of domain export.
there was actually a skill
conference they did in Canberra.
And that was the process of converting
this information into knowledge.
So the information probably said that,
okay, this is the trend, like this
is the trend of students coming in.
Students switching their courses.
This is the trend of student
staying in temporary graduate
visas and all those things.
They had those trends and analysis and
they combine that analysis with domain
expertise in that skills conference.
And they got some recommendations
and actions, which was later
implemented in the Migration Act.
So this is how you can see a
lot of government reports and
government actions that you see
will always be backed by data.
And if you look at their reports,
it will actually see how the data
was collected, how the data was
used, and how the decision was made.
And this is, again, one of the things that
I will recommend to everyone who wants
to become a data analyst or any analyst
where reporting is necessary, reporting is
useful, is have a look at other reports,
because that's where we learn from, right?
Because this is probably like
the highest level or highest
impact report that you can find.
So if you can read that and
see what processes follows.
Then that will help you build your
own reports as well when you become
a data analyst,  these are the kind
of things you need to look out for.
There will be a lot of
reports from governments.
There will be a lot of reports
from those accounting firms or
those consulting firms as well.
They produce a lot of reports.
Even private companies, they produce
a lot of reports like annual reports
and some reports on their different
projects or whatever they are working on.
So it's really good to look
through those reports and see
how data is being used in there.
And that will give you a really good
idea of, okay, I never thought this kind
of data can be used for this purpose.
Or, yeah, that's a really
interesting use case of using this
data for driving this decision.
So that's how I would
encourage you to learn.
And again, like we're not talking about
tools and everything here we are here to
talk about this mindset and that's the
way to develop your mindset is obviously
by seeing what other people are doing.
And in this case, not even other
people, it's other organizations
or other government bodies.
I highly recommend you to find these
kinds of reports and yeah, have
a look through and see how data
actually is used in real workplaces.
Let's now talk about what makes a
good data professional, because we
are here to  become a data analyst.
So let's learn what makes a good data
professional, or a good data analyst.
It's not being good with the tool alone.
A good data professional
will have these qualities.
Data professional deals
with data on daily basis.
And it's not just about
numbers and algorithm.
It's about the individual who breathe
life into the figures, transforms
them into actionable insights.
But let's see what sets them apart.
So how does a good data professional
looks like versus what the rest
of the  professionals look like.
Okay.
The data professionals
are  problem solvers.
Because as a data analyst, you
are not hired to analyze the data.
That's probably what the job
responsibility says, but you are
analyzing the data to solve a problem.
So the problem is always the  key thing
here,   it's not what analysis you can do.
It's not what graph you can produce.
It's about what problem you can solve.
At the core, data professional
are problem solvers.
They don't just dive into data.
They first understand what the business
challenge or what the business problem is.
And the value always lies
in solving the problem.
The value doesn't come from
a fancy graph or a dashboard.
The value comes from solving a problem,
and a good data analyst always knows that.
They always try to understand what
the business problem is, and then
try to build a solution for that.
Always look at things from
problem solving perspective.
. We're not here to just analyze,
we're here to solve a problem.
And maybe when we're doing the analysis,
we can probably uncover even more problem.
Because when we look at the trends,
maybe we uncover that, yeah, we
thought that there was problem one,
there is also this problem two.
And now you will try to solve those
both problems because, yeah, you just
uncovered this new problem with your
analysis and you will need to solve it.
Because only the solution
of a problem gives us value.
as a good data professional, you need
to make sure that the data that you're
working with is of high quality.
Because if your data is not good,
you can never produce good insights.
Because as the proverb goes,
it's garbage in, garbage out.
So no matter how good analysis you do,
if your data was rubbish, or if your data
was bad to begin with, your analysis will
always be bad because it's on wrong data,
so you  always need to be an advocate
of data integrity and data quality, and
that's, something that people expect
you to say in the interviews as well.
If you are going to an interview to
become a data analyst and you never
mentioned the word data cleaning, or you
never mentioned the word data quality.
then they will doubt have you actually
worked in the real world scenario.
Because in the real world scenario, the
data quality is what matters the most.
Because yeah, if you don't have good
quality data, nothing else matters.
No matter how sophisticated AI model
you build, if your data is not correct,
the output will not be correct.
So always keep in mind, Data
quality matters the most.
So that's the second trait
of a good data professional.
And again, these are the kinds of
things that people or the employer will
notice when selecting their candidates.
So yes, they know the tool,
but are they problem solver?
Can they communicate well?
Do they know about data quality?
Do they value data quality
in all those kinds of things?
That's what differentiates a good
candidate from an average candidate.
And an average candidate never
gets hired because they were
only looking for one person.
And obviously if there is a good
candidate, they go for a good candidate.
So we need to become that good
candidate, not the average candidate
So the first thing was problem solving.
Second thing is data integrity advocates.
So being able advocate for the data
quality or knowing that the data
quality is what matters the most.
Third is evidence based decision maker.
So always ground your
conclusions on evidence.
Don't go for just for gut feeling.
Sometimes, yeah, gut feelings are okay,
But even when you have a gut feeling,
you still need to back it up with data.
I can't just say,  go and build
another franchise because your
franchises are doing good.
But maybe it won't do good in that suburb
where we are trying to open the franchise.
Do I have enough data to support that?
No.
But maybe I just have a gut
feeling, maybe I know that
suburb and then I just said it.
, as a data professional, I cannot do that.
every  recommendations that I
make has to be backed with data.
As a data analyst  we provide
suggestion to C level executives,
we provide suggestion to high level
managers, and there can be multi
million dollar decisions that are
made based on those suggestions.
So you have to be extra cautious that
you are making suggestions based on
data alone, not on your gut feeling.
Yes, gut feelings are always good.
Like you have to have some gut feelings,
but you need to have some data to
validate that gut feelings   in our
upcoming sessions, we will dive more
into statistical analysis and what
are the kind of statistical test you
can do to back your recommendation.
For example, if you're saying that, okay,
we should So to close this franchise, what
are the numbers you have to support that?
What kind of tests you
have done to support that?
So we learn all about that, the
necessary testing that we need
to do to support our claims.
Okay, so we've gone with problem
solving, data quality, and
evidence based decision making.
So next up is data storyteller.
So this is where the
communication skill comes in.
No matter how groundbreaking
analysis you have done, no matter
how pretty your graph is, If it is
not communicated efficiently to the
decision makers, then nothing matters.
If a decision is not made, if an action
is not taken, your analysis does nothing.
And that's why data analysts has to
have really good communication skills.
So you can do your analysis, but you also
need to be able to sell your analysis.
It's like a sales skill in that
term, it's because you have done
something, you have done this analysis.
Now you're trying to convince someone
to take action based on this analysis.
You are selling your idea.
So your idea is that based on my
analysis, we need to close this franchise.
So you are trying to sell this idea to
whoever is going to take that action.
So you are your own sales
person in that case,
data storytelling is a technique
or it's more of an art.
So it's an art of communicating
insights from your data in a
cohesive and persuasive way.
So a story has to be cohesive as well,
which means it has to lead to us the
same recommendation or same action.
You can't be like, okay,
we can also do this.
We can also do that.
And 10 different things.
Then what are you trying to say?
What are you trying to sell here?
So it has to be cohesive and it
also has to be persuasive as well,
which means  it should be telling
that person to take accents.
And that's what data
storytelling is about.
We have got a, separate data storytelling
section where we talk about all these
kind of things, how to make your
story cohesive, how to make your
story more persuasive, what kind of
visuals to use, what kind of story
to use, all those things we learn
in the data storytelling section.
And knowledgeable and confident.
So every time you you communicate
your insights or every time
you're trying to propose something
it's normal to get setbacks.
It's normal to get  questions, right?
As a data analyst, you probably trying to
propose a solution to a problem that is.
Maybe different from what they have
expected or maybe different from
what they currently used to do.
And that, that can happen because
data will tell you the truth.
The data will suggest that, okay,
we need to stop doing this and start
doing that  now you are presenting
this recommendation which could
be quite strange to your audience.
So you need to be prepared
for those hard questions.
Where does answering those
hard questions come from?
Is by being knowledgeable.
So you can back your, obviously there is
data to back your claims obviously there
will be analysis to back your claim.
But you can also expand it and say, Okay.
Because company B was facing
the similar situation as well,
and they fixed it by doing this.
So we can follow the similar
practice because our data or our
trend is similar to their trend.
So it's not just about your analysis.
It could be from other examples
and other reports and  whatever
you can get your hands on.
You can combine them and present it to,
to back your claims  and that's what being
knowledgeable and confident means is you
just don't rely on your analysis itself
you need to expand or you need to broaden
your knowledge and be knowledgeable on
what other people are doing in similar
scenarios and all those kind of thing.
And how do we become
knowledgeable and confident.
That's the last point is by
becoming a continuous learner.
. Learning never stops, I guess it's true
in every profession, but especially
in data field it just never ends.
Because, there probably will be like
new technology that's coming in,
maybe there is new trends coming in.
whatever it might be, you always
need to be up to date with those new
advancements, what others are doing,
because things change quite often.
And not just those technologies
and things, as a data professional,
you also need to have some
understanding of the regulations.
For example, you are handling sensitive
data, and then there probably is a
regulation on sensitive data saying
that, okay, the sensitive data
cannot leave your laptop, or you
cannot make a copy of sensitive data
when you are doing the analysis.
You need to be aware of those regulations,
and then there could be things like
which, which are applied countrywide,
so there are some data regulations
on Australia . For example, health
data of any Australian citizen cannot
leave Australia, ? So you cannot
make a copy of it somewhere, even
for analysis purpose or anything.
And  those kind of regulations can change.
Maybe tomorrow they will say, okay, not
just the health information, but also
purchase history information of Australia
and cannot go outside of Australia.
If that regulation comes in tomorrow,
you need to be on top of that as well,
because maybe you are doing some analysis,
maybe you are creating some copy.
Now you need to stop creating those copies
because the regulations have changed.
And that's again that's the kind of
thing you need to stay up to date with.
And that's what being, being a data
professional is about,  so you have
to be knowledgeable, you have to be up
to date, and the learning never ends.
So how does this help me , like
right now, if I know this is what a
good data professional looks like,
then this is exactly the thing my
employer are looking in my resume.
So now I will take this information and
I will try to implement it in my resume.
So in my resume , I will start
thinking about, how do I present
myself as a good problem solver?
I need to work out on that.
Second thing, how do I present myself
as an advocate of data quality?
I need to work on that.
How do I present myself as
a good data storyteller?
How do I present myself
as a continuous learner?
How do I present myself as
knowledgeable and confident?
Those are the things I need to work on.
Because before they see me,
they only see my resume.
So my resume needs to tell them
that I am a good data professional.
And only then you get the interviews
and then you can take on the next step.
But first thing is you need to make them
sure that looking at your resume alone
they can tell you that okay, this person
will make a good data professional.
Or this person will make
a good data analyst.
Thank you.
And that's the intent of this that's
why I'm teaching you this or I'm going
through this topic, is you need to
know what your employers are expecting.
Because otherwise, how do you know
whether you are doing good or bad?
Let's talk about  mindset
of a data professional.
And again, like this helps a lot when
you are pitching yourself because you
are here to become a data professional.
So you need to learn how to think like
one, because when you think like one,
you become one and that's probably a
lot of the missing piece when you are
trying to do your self learning, when
you are trying to learn a tools just to
become a data analyst is, yes, you can
learn those tools and technologies, but
it's really hard to learn the mindset.
And that's what differentiates
between, a good data analyst
and an average data analyst.
So let's start with the mindset.
So first thing.
Obviously, you always
start with a problem.
You do not start with the data.
It's not okay, I have this
data in hand, what can I do?
That's not gonna work.
Yeah, if you're talking about your
personal projects or projects for your
uni, maybe that will work that way.
But in the business world, no one cares
about what you can do with that data.
What people care about is whether
you can solve our problem or not.
So data, starting with data that's
always the wrong assumption.
And that's the thing even when I was
at uni, that's how I used to think.
I always like, okay, what
kind of what data do I have?
What can I do with this data?
And no one really cares about
what I can do with that data.
People care about their own problems.
So instead of that, what I
should be looking for is what
sort of problems are out there.
For example, maybe I'm
interested in transportation.
So I go out and it could probably
come from my own experience as well.
It's okay, every day I
use trains and buses.
What are the problems that I face?
Maybe that problem is I don't
know how far away the bus is.
So  if I am using that service
every day, there probably are some
problems that I face every day.
And now I will start with that problem and
then think about, okay, what are the data
points I might need to solve this problem?
So then I will start looking for the data.
If I can't find the data, I
will maybe talk to people,
talk to  other organizations to
find and help me get that data.
But getting the data in the
hand is not the starting point.
The starting point is always
identifying the problem.
And yeah, there probably are some problems
that you cannot solve with data alone,
which is fine because you have not all
problems can be solved with data alone.
They probably will need to
be some software changes.
Are there some, a lot of other kinds of
changes that needs to happen, so not all
of problems  can be solved with data.
But when you're thinking about
your project or when you're
thinking about anything to do.
To start with the problem
and how you can solve it.
And next is the data acquisition.
So quality matters.
So now you have identified your problem.
Now  you go into the
data acquisition phase.
So data acquisition means
just getting  the data.
And maybe there are a lot of different
sources that I can get the data from.
And that's where I need to
factor in the data quality.
What would be the best quality
data or where I can find
the best quality data, okay?
For example, let's say I want to do
mean income analysis of all Australian.
So let's imagine this scenario.
I want to calculate the average.
income of all Australians based
on different suburbs, right?
So I want average income of each
suburb, like this suburb versus that
suburb and all those kind of things.
So I want to do that analysis.
And now I'm trying to find the
right data for that analysis.
So can anyone tell me where
could be the best place?
So there probably are
different places we can get it.
But where could be the best
place to get that data from?
Any ideas?
Yep, ATO that's correct.
In this scenario, there are a
couple of ways we can do it,  so
there is Australian Bureau of
Statistics, which does the census.
So when they do the census, and in
Australia census is mandatory, so
you cannot skip the census as well.
So you can get this data from Australian
Bureau of Statistics, which does
the census where you report your
Incomes and all those other details
that they that they ask you to fill
out, so that's one way we can obviously
get it from Bureau of Statistics.
The other way is Australian Taxes
and Office, because everyone
needs to do their taxes, so they
obviously fill out their income.
Between Australian Bureau
of Statistics and ATO, which
will have better quality data?
So it will be ATO.
Because in AVS, you are
self reporting, right?
So you're not, you're
probably just self reporting.
Say, putting yourself in
certain bracket you don't put
in like my income is 95, 536.
It will just say it's between
000 and something like that.
And that is self reported, so
it's not necessarily that I need
to put my right information.
Even if I make 100k, I'll probably
put in as like 80k in ABS.
And.
No one really checks that.
So even though you can get the
data from av s you know that it
is self-reported and yeah, people
can report whatever they want.
But in a TO, it's not self-reported.
It's actually enforced and it gets,
it has the data up to the, maybe up
to the sense, I think it, you will
have your income up to the sense so
that you can do the tax calculation.
So ATO's data will definitely be of really
high quality compared to the ADS data.
So that's just an example on showing
like, yes, you could have data coming
from like different data sources, but
as much as possible, you have to get
the data with the highest quality.
And in this example, like obviously
ATO is not going to give us the
annual income of everyone, right?
If we're just normal people, if
we work in ATO, maybe they will.
But as a normal people,
we cannot get that data.
But as a normal people, as a
public, we can get data from AVS.
So if you want to see the average
annual income of your suburb,
you can actually see it in fema.
gov So sometimes there can be
constraints that even though you
know that the high quality data
exists, you just can't access it.
So now you have to work with
the best available data, right?
So and then the best available
data maybe is just ABS there.
So that way sometimes there will
be constraint to get some data.
So you have to work with what
data you have, but the gist is
you always need to look for the
highest quality data available.
Because we talked about it previously.
It's garbage in garbage out.
If your data quality is not good, your
analysis would not be any good than that.
And the power of exploratory
analysis, sorry, that's a typo,
the power of exploratory analysis.
So before you dive deep into your deeper
analysis, what a good data analyst
do is they always do some exploratory
analysis, which is like a quick checks.
For instance, if I want to do that,
the same example I want to do the
average annual salary of a sub of,
then I will do a quick check and see
what the distribution looks like.
And how many data points I have got.
If I got less data points, maybe
the average won't make much
sense because, yeah, I don't know
where that data point came from.
So I will keep that in mind and I
will do that exploratory analysis to
quickly check how the data is, what
the distribution looks like whether
there are any anomalies, whether
there are any outliers in the data,
I will quickly do that analysis.
Because after that when I do
the deeper analysis, which is
probably I'm building some models.
I'm probably building some Pattern
findings and all those kind of things.
I don't want to spend much time
There if the data is wrong.
So this is my first checkpoint in
saying yeah Is this data enough or
sufficient or of good enough quality?
for Pursuing the later analysis.
And that's why it's called exploratory
analysis And we actually have a session
dedicated to exploratory analysis
itself, where we talk about what sort
of checks you need to do to make sure
that you have got the right data and
sufficient data for your further analysis.
And this is like really helpful,
especially in work terms as well,
is because if you skip this, You
will spend quite a long time on
doing those analysis on wrong data.
So it's better to find out one
month earlier, than finding out one
month later where you have done all
these things with the data, but you
find out that the data was wrong,
so that's what the exploratory analysis
prevents, is to wasting your time on
something when the data was not there
to begin with in the first place.
So that's the exploratory analysis.
And again, a good data analyst
would always do that exploratory
analysis before they do the
deep down analytics on any data.
And deep down with purpose.
So when you do that deep dive analysis,
you have to have a purpose in mind
because otherwise it can take forever
because analysis is like, if you don't
have an end goal it can go on and on.
You try to do this thing.
It doesn't work to do other thing you
are trying to combine more things.
And , if you don't have
an end goal, it just.
Goes on and on.
So keep that final purpose in mind.
And what's the final purpose?
That is driven by the problem that
we started in the first place.
So we're not doing this analysis
for the sake of the analysis.
We're doing this analysis
to solve that problem.
So that will be your purpose and
keep that purpose in mind all the
time when you're doing the analysis.
Otherwise this analysis will go nowhere
and you will waste a lot of your time.
And if you're in a company, you
will waste a lot of their resources.
From information to actionable knowledge.
So again, if we call back to our
discussion on data, information, and
knowledge, once you are done with your
analysis, you produce an information.
That's not a knowledge as and
it's on unless you have got
the domain expertise as well.
So what do you need to do
now is the information that
you got from your analysis.
You now need to combine
it with domain expertise.
And again, if that's the domain you are
already a part of, you can probably.
do that stage yourself, or you
will probably engage an SME or the
subject matter expert on that topic.
And now you and the SME will have
a look at the information and
they will produce the knowledge.
And that's the knowledge
that will be presented.
And that's the knowledge.
that will be acted on
by the decision makers.
So in your early stages as a data analyst,
you probably will only be doing that
information, the creating the information
path, and you probably will have some
SME or maybe your senior analyst who will
provide that domain expertise to you.
But later on, as you become more and
more experienced in that domain, you
will be responsible for the entire thing.
And that's why a lot of the jobs, if
you see if I look at analyst positions
or senior analyst position, they will
say if it is in a mining company, they
will say mining experience preferred.
If it is a banking company,
banking experience preferred.
Why is that?
It's because the information
alone is not enough.
You need that domain experience, and when
they are coupled, that becomes knowledge,
and that's what they are looking
for, that they want that knowledge.
So that knowledge is acted upon.
Alright, so that's why when you become
senior, you come with that domain
experience as well, because you probably
have been an analyst in that domain
for some time, and you know that
domain well, so you will be able to
do that part, both part on your own.
But when you're starting with, you
will produce the information, and you
will need to work with subject matter
expert to convert that into knowledge.
Because some of the assumptions
in your analysis could be wrong.
Or the kind of different, weird pattern
that you're seeing, maybe there is
a different explanation for that.
Maybe it's in the business operations.
Maybe it's the seasonality.
There could be a lot of the things
that is not in the data, but still
it explains what's happening there.
And that's what that's what the
domain experience is, information,
that's what we produce from analysis.
But the domain expertise comes
from outside, and then that's what
becomes, makes it the knowledge.
And reflect and evaluate.
So this is again, really important one,
is once you are complete, once you're done
with your project, once you're done with
your work, always reflect and evaluate.
And in workplace sense, there will be
like formal rituals for this called
project closures, retrospectives,
and all those kinds of things.
But in your personal projects
and your personal work as
well, you can implement that.
Because during the process of doing
the project, you learn a lot, right?
By the end of the project, if you
stop and reflect, okay, now if I
had to do this project again, with
all the knowledge that I have, maybe
I will do some things differently.
Because there probably were some learnings
that you did during the project that
will definitely help you if you were
redoing this project from scratch now.
And if you note down those learnings, or
if you, Just take a note of what things
you could have done better and what are
the learnings you got from this project.
You can use those notes to then
formulate your next project
and that will be really great.
Because you did one project, you learned
something from that, and then now you're
implementing that in the next project.
And this is how the corporate world
works they do one project, they close it
out, they take the learnings, and then
they do next project, and then that way
the project keeps getting better and
better, and they refine their process and
procedures to make it better and better.
But we can do that on our personal
life as well, is yeah, I'll
probably start with a small project.
I'll do it maybe in one or
two weeks, but that's it.
But after that one or two weeks, I
will stop and reflect on how I can do
it better or how if I were to start
this project again, what are the
things that I will do differently?
Take note of that.
And then when you start the next project,
you will do those things differently
and that will be a better project.
Okay.
So, that's the mindset
of a good data professor.
It's starting with a problem, making
sure you have got the good quality
data, spending some time in exploratory
analysis so that you don't waste
your time on doing those deep dives.
When you are doing the deep dive,
keep in mind what your purpose is.
And that purpose is driven by
the problem that you started
to started in the first place.
And obviously marrying your insights
with domain expertise to convert it into
knowledge and reflecting and evaluating
upon completion of your project.
So that's the that's how a data
professional should operate.
Okay.
And hopefully this will help you.
In your personal level as well,
even when you're trying to do your
personal projects, these steps
will help you get better projects.
That's all for today.
Thanks for watching and I
will see you in the next one.